Chris gunnis is a former unra spokesman
and joins us now from London Chris unra
is sadly no stranger to its workers
being targeted and killed by Israeli
attacks in this
war indeed
over7 unra workers have died and to be
clear about what happened with the world
Central Kitchen staff this was a
deliberate calculated premeditated
Massacre of innocent humanitarian
workers the Israeli Army had been told
of the exact route in fact they helped
established the exact route that these
workers were driving along the uh Convoy
itself had been coordinated with the
Israeli army they knew the exact GPS
coordinates inch by inch of the route
that these workers were traveling along
and what we saw is not one not two but
three deliberate attacks or so it
appears and I hope that these attacks
are investigated and that there is a
full and transparent investigation not
by the IDF not by the Israeli Army
because for years we've seen attacks on
humanitarian workers in Gaza not just
unra un workers but others and we've
never seen any proper criminal
individual criminal liability
accountability for these attacks and I
hope that the world Central Kitchen will
press with its contacts in Washington
because the world is revulsed by this
and as I say 170 plus unra workers have
been killed there must be full
accountability for their killing also
for too long the Israeli Army has got
off scot-free with these massacres and I
use the word massacres advisedly of
humanitarian workers Chris you say the
world is repulsed by this attack but but
where is the out outrage where is the
action being taken against
Israel well let's talk about the
international court of justice and let's
talk about the security Council whose
response has been holy inadequate at the
icj what we've seen is Israel told that
it's committing a plausible genocide
here is the the people the nation the
country against whom a holocaust was was
committed accused of a genocide against
a population which it has put in a a
ghetto the world's largest prison camp
as David Cameron the current British
foreign secretary when he was prime
minister once described it so let's hope
that the icj will move towards
accountability that is something which
is new it didn't it wasn't the case in
2014 when I was the unra spokesperson
and let's see what the security Council
will do because things are changing
there wasn't an American veto and of
course America is supplying $3.8 billion
dollar per year of Weaponry that's being
used for these massacres of workers and
we would like to think that America is
coming to its senses that there will be
some kind of effort within the Biden
Administration given the huge pressure
that we're now seeing from the American
Arab Community for a change of policy
and I think that's also true of the
American Jewish community so let's not
write off accountability quite yet but I
can understand where there would be huge
huge sism across the Arab street because
nothing really meaningful has happened
whatsoever let's look a bit more at
World Central Kitchen we this is an
organization that we believe coordinated
closely with the Israelis in so far as
it was also bringing Aid to Gaza by sea
with ships from Cyprus it involved the
building of a jetty it involved
distribution of aid from the boats
across Northern Gaza if this is an
organization that has been attacked
having had that close coordination with
the Israelis what does it mean for other
Aid organizations in
Gaza that's a very very good question
because I think what we're now seeing is
a deliberate attempt to make clear to
the world that the genocide is going to
happen that if this organization which
was so closely coordinated with the
Israeli authorities is going to be
deliberately attacked not once not twice
but three times and of course it called
off and has suspended its delivery of
food and with each of those boats coming
in we're seeing half a million meals
delivered to 300,000 people who are
facing starvation in Northern Gaza it
seems to me that that's a very clear
signal to the world as if it was needed
that Israel is committed to the
genocidal project it is De developing
Gaza it's destroying Gaza all the
universities destroyed schools hit
cultural centers hit and of course
Netanyahu and yav Galant the defense
minister and yach Herzog the president
have made it clear in their public
statements they intend to commit
genocide and that's what we're seeing in
this attack on these Aid workers today
this tragic Massacre this liberate uh
calculated premeditated attack not once
not twice three times on these workers
that is part of the genocidal the
project that has been made clear by
these Israeli leaders Chris we're
hearing that the second largest Aid
organization humanitarian organization
after unra inside Gaza Ana is going to
be suspending its operations after
attack uh threats it says of attacks and
obviously attacks on the world C kitchen
and other Aid workers what do you know
about this and what impact is it having
on the people of
Gaza well for the people of Gaza let me
be clear there are 300,000 people in an
IDP Camp internally displaced people
camp in the north and there are 1.4 1.5
million in Rafa they are starving to
death as we speak despite the propaganda
that's being put out by Israel and its
propaganda machinery and what we had and
here's a breaking news story for you
today the IDF the Israeli Army blocked
an entire un Convoy from going to the
north and that's because the world food
program has made it clear that it will
not do food distributions uh in a way
which undermines unra in any way what
the Israelis were trying to do was save
the world F the world food program you
come and do food distributions will
block unra well today was a coordination
meeting and the uh world food program
and other un agencies made it clear that
if there's no unra there's no Convoy if
there's no under going to meetings then
there is no meeting and that's an
advance but what it's meant is that the
Israelis have now blocked an entire un
Convoy going to the north So within
hours of this attack this massacre of
these innocent humanitarian workers the
Israelis have now blocked an entire un
Convoy I hope this is is referred to the
international court of justice as
further evidence that a plausible
genocide is being perpetrated by the
country for whom the word genocide was
created and that is an outrage which
should be a cause for international
outrage and I hope things will start to
change because 2.3 million people today
are facing starvation in Gaza it's an
outrage and it must end soon Chris GIS
former span for unra thanks very much
for talking to Al
jazer